# Assembler-in-cpp

This assembly language is for a machine with four registers,
- Two registers, A & B, arranged as an internal stack.
- A program counter, PC 
- A stack pointer, SP


These registers are 32 bits in size. Instructions have either no operands or a single operand. The
operand is a signed 2's complement value. The encoding uses the bottom 8 bits for opcode and
the upper 24 bits for operand.

As with most assembly languages, this is line based (one statement per line). Comments begin
with a ';' and anything on the line after the ';' is ignored. Blank lines and lines containing only a
comment are permitted (and ignored). White space (' ' and tabs) are permitted at the beginning of
a line (and ignored). Label definitions consist of the label name followed by a ':', and an optional
statement (there is not necessarily a space between the ':' and the statement). A label use is just
the label name. For branch instructions label use should calculate the branch displacement. For
non-branch instructions, the label value should be used directly. A valid label name is an
alphanumeric string beginning with a letter . An operand is either a label or a number, the
number can be decimal, hex or octal. gh repo clone iamskp11/Assembler-in-cpp


To run this Assembler, you simply need to add your filename in Line 16 of assembler code and run it.

Compile by : g++ asm.cpp -o asm

Run by : ./asm 

#Emulator-in-cpp

Emulator runs the instructions of the actual simple instruction set code by going throught the machine level code generated by assembler.





